[TASK] Revise chapter "XLIFF format" (#2250)
TYPO3-Documentation/TYPO3CMS-Reference-CoreApi: Documentation/ApiOverview/Internationalization/XliffFormat.rst

..  include:: /Includes.rst.txt
..  index:: ! XLIFF
..  _xliff:

============
XLIFF Format
============

The `XML Localization Interchange File Format <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XLIFF>`_
(or XLIFF) is an `OASIS-blessed <https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/xliff>`_
standard format for translations.

In a nutshell, an XLIFF document contains one or more :xml:`<file>` elements.
Each file element usually corresponds to a source (file or database table) and
contains the source of the localizable data. Once translated, the corresponding
localized data is added for one, and only one, locale.

Localizable data is stored in :xml:`<trans-unit>` elements. :xml:`<trans-unit>`
contains a :xml:`<source>` element to store the source text and a
(non-mandatory) :xml:`<target>` element to store the translated text.

> Remember that the default language is always English, even if you have changed your Typo3 backend to another language, so source-language="en" must be.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember that the default language is always English, even if you have changed 
your TYPO3 backend to another language, it is mandatory to set  :xml:`source-language="en"`.
```

> Keep in mind that the default language is always English, even when you have

Reviewer: We have this sentence twice now?

Reviewer: Please read from line 22 to line 27

> changed your TYPO3 Backend to another language, so the source language must

Reviewer: ```suggestion
changed your TYPO3 backend to another language, so the source language must
```

always be :xml:`source-language="en"`.

..  note::
    Having several :xml:`<file>` elements in the same XLIFF document is not
    supported by the TYPO3 Core.

..  index:: XLIFF; Basics
..  _xliff-basics:

Basics
======

Here is a sample XLIFF file:

..  code-block:: xml
    :caption: EXT:my_ext/Resources/Private/Language/Modules/<file-name>.xlf

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <xliff version="1.2" xmlns="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2">
        <file source-language="en" datatype="plaintext" original="EXT:my_ext/Resources/Private/Language/Modules/<file-name>.xlf" date="2020-10-18T18:20:51Z" product-name="my_ext">
            <header/>
            <body>
                <trans-unit id="headerComment" resname="headerComment">
                    <source>The default Header Comment.</source>
                </trans-unit>
                <trans-unit id="generator" resname="generator">
                    <source>The "Generator" Meta Tag.</source>
                </trans-unit>
            </body>
        </file>
    </xliff>

..  tip::

>     The following attributes should be populated properly in order to get the

Reviewer: I wouldn't add this as a tip but as normal text. Admonitions should be short.

                    <source>The "Generator" Meta Tag.</source>
                    <target>Der "Generator"-Meta-Tag.</target>
                </trans-unit>
            </body>
        </file>
    </xliff>

Only one language can be stored per file, and each translation into another
language is placed in an additional file.

..  note::
    The optional :xml:`approved` attribute in a :xml:`<trans-unit>` tag
    indicates whether the translation has been approved by a reviewer.
    :ref:`Crowdin <crowdin-extension-integration>` supports this attribute.
    Currently, only approved translations are exported and available via the
    TYPO3 :ref:`translation server <xliff-translating-servers>`.

..  index:: ! Path; EXT:{extkey}/Resources/Private/Language
..  _xliff-files:

File locations and naming
=========================

In the TYPO3 Core, XLIFF files are located in the various system extensions
as needed and are expected to be located in :file:`Resources/Private/Language`.

In :ref:`Extbase <extbase>`, the main file (:file:`locallang.xlf`) will be
loaded automatically and is available in the controller and Fluid views without

> further work needed. Other files will need to be referred to explicitly using

Reviewer: This sounds a bit bumpy

ID naming
=========

There is no strict rule or guideline for defining identifiers (the :xml:`id`

> attribute). Nevertheless, it is best practice to follow these rules:

Author: no *strict* rule ;-)
